Clarify exactly which extensions are stable and what we're ratifying for v1.0 (#808)
riscv/riscv-cheri: src/cheri/introduction.adoc

=== CHERI Extensions to RISC-V

This specification is based on publicly available documentation including
CHERI v9 cite:[cheri-v9-spec] and CHERI Concentrate cite:[woodruff2019cheri].

Compatibility with RVA, RVB and RVM profiles will be listed in separate {cheri_base_ext_name} based profiles ({cheri_base_ext_name}A, {cheri_base_ext_name}B, {cheri_base_ext_name}M).
These will list the compatible extensions.

NOTE: Most existing extensions are compatible with {cheri_base_ext_name} with no modifications.
 Incompatible extensions will be listed in the profile documents.

IMPORTANT: Zicfiss is currently incompatible. An {cheri_base_ext_name} version has not yet been developed.

This section lists new extensions available to {cheri_base_ext_name}, and also extensions where the behavior is modified for {cheri_base_ext_name}.

{cheri_base_ext_name} is defined as the base ISA that all CHERI RISC-V implementations must support.
{cheri_default_ext_name} and {cheri_priv_crg_ext} are examples of optional extensions in addition to
{cheri_base_ext_name}.

> In some cases adding an existing extension, such as C or Zca, causes additional instructions to be added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases adding an existing extension, such as F or V, causes additional instructions to be added.
```
Maybe better to use different extensions for both cases, C is special in that both cases apply?

In other cases adding an existing extension, such as C or Zca, causes existing instructions to have modified behavior.

#not sure where to put this note#

[NOTE]
====
Software is referred to as _purecap_ if it utilizes CHERI capabilities for all
memory accesses -- including loads, stores and instruction fetches -- rather
than integer addresses. Purecap software requires the CHERI RISC-V hart to
support {cheri_base_ext_name}. Software is referred to as _hybrid_ if it uses
integer addresses *or* CHERI capabilities for memory accesses. Hybrid software
requires the CHERI RISC-V hart to support {cheri_base_ext_name} and
{cheri_default_ext_name}.

> ====

Reviewer: I wonder if this note should be in the Zyhybrid chapter instead?

|=============================================================================================================================================================

.Unprivileged stable extensions where {cheri_base_ext_name} modifies the behavior
[#unpriv-mod-extension-status,reftext="Extension Status and Summary"]
[options=header,align=center,width="90%"]
|=============================================================================================================================================================
| Extension                                                 | Description
|<<{rvy_i_mod_file_name},     {rvy_i_mod_ext_name}>>        | RVI instructions modified by {cheri_base_ext_name}
|<<{rvy_zca_mod_file_name},   {rvy_zca_mod_ext_name}>>      | Zca instructions modified by {cheri_base_ext_name}
|<<{rvy_zicsr_mod_file_name}, {rvy_zicsr_mod_ext_name}>>    | Zicsr instructions modified by {cheri_base_ext_name}
|<<{rvy_zicbom_mod_file_name},{rvy_zicbom_mod_ext_name}>>   | Zicbom instructions modified by {cheri_base_ext_name}
|<<{rvy_zicboz_mod_file_name},{rvy_zicboz_mod_ext_name}>>   | Zicboz instructions modified by {cheri_base_ext_name}

> |<<{rvy_zicbop_mod_file_name},{rvy_zicbop_mod_ext_name}>>   | Zicbop instructions modified by {cheri_base_ext_name}

Reviewer: Should we add V here?

Author: V comes later as I've classified it as "experimental", also H

| Extension                                                 | Description
|<<section_debug_integration_ext,Sdext ({cheri_base_ext_name})>>   | External debug support
|=============================================================================================================================================================

==== Experimental Extensions and Specifications

.Unprivileged experimental extensions and specifications
[#unpriv-exp-extension-status,reftext="Extension Status and Summary"]
[options=header,align=center,width="90%"]
|=============================================================================================================================================================
| Extension                                                 | Description
|<<section_cheri_vector_integration>>                       | Vector
|<<Zcmt_CHERI>>                                             | Table Jump for {cheri_base32_ext_name}
|<<Zcmp_CHERI>>                                             | Push/pop and double move for {cheri_base32_ext_name}
|<<section_xycheriot>>                                      | CHERIoT capability encoding

> |<<section_zyseal>>                                         | Sealing extension required for CHERIoT

Reviewer 2: It happens to be required for CHERIoT, but it is useful unto itself.  It's been in University CHERI for over a decade.

{cheri_base_ext_name} is defined as the base ISA that all CHERI RISC-V implementations must support.
{cheri_default_ext_name} and {cheri_priv_crg_ext} are examples of optional extensions in addition to
{cheri_base_ext_name}.

In some cases adding an existing extension, such as H, causes additional instructions to be added.

In other cases adding an existing extension, such as C, causes additional instructions to be added and existing instructions to have modified behavior.

==== Stable Extensions and Specifications

.Unprivileged stable {cheri_base_ext_name} extensions
[#unpriv-extension-status,reftext="Extension Status and Summary"]
[options=header,align=center,width="90%"]
|=============================================================================================================================================================
| Extension or Specification                                | Description
|<<rv32y,{cheri_base_ext_name}>>                            | Base ISA
|<<app_cap_description,{rvy_default_encoding_name}>>        | Default capability encoding

> |<<section_rvy_sentry_insn_ext>>                            | Sentry extension for CFI

Reviewer 3: Not just CFI...

Author: also true - please suggest a suitable description

|<<abhlrsc_ext,     {lr_sc_bh_ext_name}>>                   | Byte and halfword LR/SC functionality
|=============================================================================================================================================================

.Privileged stable extensions and specifications
[#priv-extension-status,reftext="Extension Status and Summary"]
[options=header,align=center,width="90%"]
|=============================================================================================================================================================
| Extension or Specification                                | Description
|<<section_priv_cheri,{cheri_priv_m_ext}>>                  | Machine ISA
|<<section_priv_cheri,{cheri_priv_s_ext}>>                  | Supervisor ISA
|<<section_cheri_disable,{cheri_priv_m_reg_enable_ext}>>    | Hybrid extension for RVI compatibility
ifdef::support_varxlen[]
|<<section_cheri_dyn_xlen,{cheri_priv_m_dyn_xlen_ext}>>     | Dynamic XLEN support
endif::support_varxlen[]
|<<section_priv_cheri_vmem,{cheri_priv_vmem_ext}>>          | Virtual Memory
|<<section_debug_integration_trig,{cheri_priv_debug_trig}>> | Debug triggers

> |<<section_cheri_priv_crg_ext,    {cheri_priv_crg_ext}>>^1^ | Revocation to prevent Use-After-free

Author: please suggest a suitable description!

ifdef::cheri_ratification_v1_only[]

==== Unratified RISC-V Standard Extensions for {cheri_base_ext_name}

Future version of this specification will include {cheri_base_ext_name} versions of:

* "H" extension
* "V" extension
* Pointer masking extensions (Ssnpm, Smnpm, Smmpm, Sspm, Supm)
* Code size reduction: Zcmt, Zcmp

endif::[]

ifndef::cheri_ratification_v1_only[]

==== Experimental Extensions and Specifications

.Unprivileged experimental extensions and specifications
[#unpriv-exp-extension-status,reftext="Extension Status and Summary"]
[options=header,align=center,width="90%"]
|=============================================================================================================================================================
| Extension                                                 | Description
|<<section_cheri_vector_integration>>                       | Vector
|<<Zcmt_CHERI>>                                             | Table Jump for {cheri_base32_ext_name}
|<<Zcmp_CHERI>>                                             | Push/pop and double move for {cheri_base32_ext_name}
|<<section_xycheriot>>                                      | CHERIoT capability encoding

> |<<section_zyseal>>                                         | Sealing extension

Author: yes, agreed, so again please suggest a sutiable description

> |<<section_zyseal>>                                         | Sealing extension

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|<<section_zyseal>>                                         | Capability-mediated capability (un)sealing instructions
```
